README.md, before:

# Enhance Wordpress Plugin

This plugin server side renders enhance components for wordpress sites.
It is experimental and should probably not be used in production yet.

Two plugins are included:
1. `enhance-ssr-wp-plugin.php` server side render any enhance custom elements in the wordpress site.
These can be added in PHP templates, raw HTML blocks in the editor, or as predefined blocks.

2. `enhance-wp-blocks-plugin.php` demonstrates wrapping an Enhance component for use in the block editor. 
This works with the SSR plugin. These blocks are stored in the WP database as HTML (i.e. <my-header>Hi</my-header>) and then the SSR plugin will them wherever they are used.


## Requirements
This plugin requires the [Extism](https://extism.org) binary in order to run the WASM (Web Assembly) Enhance SSR library.
It also requires that you can edit the `php.ini` file for the environment. 
For that reason it may not be possible to run the plugin in some free wordpress hosting providers.

### Install Extism Runtime Dependency

For this library, you first need to install the Extism Runtime by following the instructions in the [PHP SDK Repository](https://github.com/extism/php-sdk#install-the-extism-runtime-dependency).

### Install dependencies

```sh
composer install
```

### Enable FFI
Since PHP does not have a built in WASM interperter it uses shared C libraries.
Add the following to `php.ini`.

```sh
ffi.enable=true
```

## Examples

### Write Elements
Enhance Elements are pure JavaScript functions that accept `state` and return HTML.
Here is an example of `/elements/my-header.js`:
```javascript
function MyHeader({ html }) {
  return html`<style>h1 { color: red; }</style><h1><slot></slot></h1>`
}
```

### Use Elements
This element is authored as an HTML web component or custom element (i.e. `<my-header>Cool</my-header>`).
With the SSR plugin these can be used anywhere in the wordpress site and the plugin will expand them just before they are sent to the browser.
They can be used:
1. Directly in PHP templates
![single.php template with my-header tag](/docs/images/in-php-template.png)

2. In raw HTML blocks anywhere
![my-header tag in raw html block](/docs/images/in-html-blocks.png)

3. As Gutenburg blocks
![my-header in WP editor](/docs/images/in-gutenburg-block.png)

### Enhance Elements as Gutenburg blocks
The new Wordpress block editor uses React for the editor and for rendering individual blocks before storing them as plain html in the database.
Enhance elements are pure functions that run on the server to render plain HTML.
That does not mean that they can't have clientside JavaScript, but the baseline experience is HTML.
One way to wrap Enhance Elements so that they work in the block editor is shown below:

```javascript
// custom-blocks/my-header.js
( function( blocks, element, blockEditor ) {
    let el = element.createElement;
    let RichText = blockEditor.RichText;
    
    blocks.registerBlockType( 'enhance-plugin/my-header-block', {
        title: 'My Header',
        icon: 'heading',
        category: 'layout',
        attributes: {
            content: {
                type: 'string',
                source: 'html',
                selector: 'my-header',
            },
        },
        edit: function( props ) {
            var content = props.attributes.content;
            function onChangeContent( newContent ) {
                props.setAttributes( { content: newContent } );
            }

            return el(
                RichText,
                {
                    tagName: 'h1',
                    className: 'my-custom-header',
                    style: { color: 'red' },
                    value: content,
                    onChange: onChangeContent,
                }
            );
        },
        // Save should be the authored/non-expanded html form of my-header (i.e. `<my-header>Hello World</my-header>`)
        save: function( props ) {
            const htmlContent = props.attributes.content
            return el( 'my-header', { dangerouslySetInnerHTML: { __html: htmlContent } } , null );
        },
      }
    );
} )( window.wp.blocks, window.wp.element, window.wp.blockEditor );

```

The `edit` function uses the block editor rich text component.
This is a React Component as required.
Styles can be added to visually match the actual rendered component. 

The `save` function is what will be rendered to create an HTML fragment to save in the WP database.
The editor uses React to render this fragment.
What we want to render is the "Authored" version of the enhance element. 
The SSR plugin will expand this element when it is used in the post/page. 
So we want to render the tag name (`my-header`) with the authored content. 
We use the good old `dangerouslySetInnerHTML` to escape the bonds of React and render the HTML we want to save to the database.

Commit message:

Add Local docs
Signed-off-by: macdonst <simon.macdonald@gmail.com>

README.md, after:

# Enhance Wordpress Plugin

This plugin server side renders enhance components for wordpress sites.
It is experimental and should probably not be used in production yet.

Two plugins are included:
1. `enhance-ssr-wp-plugin.php` server side render any enhance custom elements in the wordpress site.
These can be added in PHP templates, raw HTML blocks in the editor, or as predefined blocks.

2. `enhance-wp-blocks-plugin.php` demonstrates wrapping an Enhance component for use in the block editor.
This works with the SSR plugin. These blocks are stored in the WP database as HTML (i.e. <my-header>Hi</my-header>) and then the SSR plugin will them wherever they are used.


## Requirements
This plugin requires the [Extism](https://extism.org) binary in order to run the WASM (Web Assembly) Enhance SSR library.
It also requires that you can edit the `php.ini` file for the environment.
For that reason it may not be possible to run the plugin in some free wordpress hosting providers.

### Install Extism Runtime Dependency

For this library, you first need to install the Extism Runtime by following the instructions in the [PHP SDK Repository](https://github.com/extism/php-sdk#install-the-extism-runtime-dependency).

### Install dependencies

```sh
composer install
```

### Enable FFI
Since PHP does not have a built in WASM interperter it uses shared C libraries.
Add the following to `php.ini`.

```sh
ffi.enable=true
```

## Development Copy of WordPress Instructions

- [Local](./docs/wp-local.md)

## Examples

### Write Elements
Enhance Elements are pure JavaScript functions that accept `state` and return HTML.
Here is an example of `/elements/my-header.js`:
```javascript
function MyHeader({ html }) {
  return html`<style>h1 { color: red; }</style><h1><slot></slot></h1>`
}
```

### Use Elements
This element is authored as an HTML web component or custom element (i.e. `<my-header>Cool</my-header>`).
With the SSR plugin these can be used anywhere in the wordpress site and the plugin will expand them just before they are sent to the browser.
They can be used:
1. Directly in PHP templates
![single.php template with my-header tag](/docs/images/in-php-template.png)

2. In raw HTML blocks anywhere
![my-header tag in raw html block](/docs/images/in-html-blocks.png)

3. As Gutenburg blocks
![my-header in WP editor](/docs/images/in-gutenburg-block.png)

### Enhance Elements as Gutenburg blocks
The new Wordpress block editor uses React for the editor and for rendering individual blocks before storing them as plain html in the database.
Enhance elements are pure functions that run on the server to render plain HTML.
That does not mean that they can't have clientside JavaScript, but the baseline experience is HTML.
One way to wrap Enhance Elements so that they work in the block editor is shown below:

```javascript
// custom-blocks/my-header.js
( function( blocks, element, blockEditor ) {
    let el = element.createElement;
    let RichText = blockEditor.RichText;

    blocks.registerBlockType( 'enhance-plugin/my-header-block', {
        title: 'My Header',
        icon: 'heading',
        category: 'layout',
        attributes: {
            content: {
                type: 'string',
                source: 'html',
                selector: 'my-header',
            },
        },
        edit: function( props ) {
            var content = props.attributes.content;
            function onChangeContent( newContent ) {
                props.setAttributes( { content: newContent } );
            }

            return el(
                RichText,
                {
                    tagName: 'h1',
                    className: 'my-custom-header',
                    style: { color: 'red' },
                    value: content,
                    onChange: onChangeContent,
                }
            );
        },
        // Save should be the authored/non-expanded html form of my-header (i.e. `<my-header>Hello World</my-header>`)
        save: function( props ) {
            const htmlContent = props.attributes.content
            return el( 'my-header', { dangerouslySetInnerHTML: { __html: htmlContent } } , null );
        },
      }
    );
} )( window.wp.blocks, window.wp.element, window.wp.blockEditor );

```

The `edit` function uses the block editor rich text component.
This is a React Component as required.
Styles can be added to visually match the actual rendered component.

The `save` function is what will be rendered to create an HTML fragment to save in the WP database.
The editor uses React to render this fragment.
What we want to render is the "Authored" version of the enhance element.
The SSR plugin will expand this element when it is used in the post/page.
So we want to render the tag name (`my-header`) with the authored content.
We use the good old `dangerouslySetInnerHTML` to escape the bonds of React and render the HTML we want to save to the database.
